# live-imaging
Data analysis of Ca2+ live imaging of mouse neuron activities

## Abstract
Although the biochemical signaling events in area CA1 of the hippocampus underlying memory acquisition, consolidation, retrieval and extinction have been extensively studied, little is known about the activity dynamics of hippocampal neurons in CA1 during Pavlovian fear conditioning. Here, we used fiber-optic confocal microscopy coupled with the calcium indicator GCaMP6 to monitor neuron activity in freely moving mice during trace fear conditioning. We show that the activity of a group of CA1 neurons increases not only after the stimulus presentations, but also during the stimulus-free trace period when the conditioned mice exhibit a high level of freezing behavior. Therefore, we designate these cells “trace cells”. Interestingly, the activity of the trace cells increases in response to the conditioned stimuli during memory retrieval but diminishes during memory extinction. Importantly, the dynamics of neuron activity exhibit a high degree of correlation with the freezing behavior of the mice, suggesting that a neuronal ensemble responsible for encoding the trace fear memory is repeatedly reactivated during memory retrieval and later extinguished during memory extinction.

## Significance Statement
Understanding the activity dynamics of neurons in the hippocampus is key to elucidating mechanisms of memory acquisition, consolidation, retrieval and extinction. We used an in vivo Ca2+ imaging technique to monitor neuron activity in freely moving mice during Pavlovian fear conditioning. We identified cells associated with the fear memory and show that activity of these cells increases during memory retrieval and diminishes during memory extinction. We provide novel evidence that dynamics of neuron activity in the hippocampus reflects animal behavioral responses.
